Q1) Can abstract class have constructors in Java?

Ans. 	Yes it can have a constructor and it is defined and behaves just like any
 	other class's constructor. Except that abstract classes can't be directly 
	instantiated,only extended, so the use is therefore always from a subclass's 
	constructor.

Q2)  Can abstract class implements interface in Java? do they require to implement all methods?

Ans. 	In Java, an abstract class can implement an interface, and not provide implementations 
	of all of the interface's methods. It is the responsibility of the first concrete class 
	that has that abstract class as an ancestor to implement all of the methods in the interface.


Q3)  Can abstract class be final in Java?

Ans. 	No a class cannot be marked "abstract" as well as "final". Marking a class "abstract"
	means it contains partial implementation of methods and hence depends on its
	subclasses to provide concrete implementation. Marking the class "final" means that no 
	other class can extend it and hence abstract classes cannot be marked final.



Q4)  Can abstract class have static methods in Java?

Ans.	In Java you can have a static method in an abstract class:

	This is allowed because that method can be called directly, even if you do not 
	have an instance of the abstract class: 
	
	However, for the same reason, you can't declare a static method to be abstract. 
	Normally, the compiler can guarantee that an abstract method will have a real 
	implementation any time that it is called, because you can't create an instance 
	of an abstract class. But since a static method can be called directly,
 	making it abstract would make it possible to call an undefined method.


Q5)  Can you create instance of abstract class?

Ans. 	No, you cannot create an instance of an abstract class because it does not have
	a complete implementation. The purpose of an abstract class is to function as a 
	base for subclasses. It acts like a template, or an empty or partially empty 
	structure, you should extend it and build on it before you can use it

Q6)  Is it necessary for abstract class to have abstract method?

Ans. 	Yes we can have an abstract class without Abstract Methods as both are independent
	concepts. Declaring a class abstract means that it can not be instantiated on its 
	own and can only be sub classed. Declaring a method abstract means that Method will 
	be defined in the subclass.


Q7)  Difference between abstract class and interface in Java?

Ans.	1.Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and 
	  cannot have implementations.
 	
	2.A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.
 	
	3.Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final. An abstract class may 
	  contain non-final variables

Q8)  When do you favor abstract class over interface?

Ans.	Use the abstract class if your subclasses have is-a relationship with the abstract 
	class.You can have both an abstract class and an interface - the abstract class 
	specifying implementations, and the interface specifying the API.

Q9)    What is abstract method in Java?

Ans.	Abstract methods means there is no default implementation for it and an 
	implementing class will provide the details.

Q10) Can abstract class contains main method in Java ?

Ans.	Abstract just means you can't instantiate the class directly. You can have 
	constructors if you want - they might be needed for subclasses to initiate 
	the object state. You can have static methods, including main() and they 
	don't need an object so calling them is fine.
	
Q11)  what is static block in java?

Abs.	Static block is mostly used for changing the default values of static variables.
	This block gets executed when the class is loaded in the memory. A class can have 
	multiple Static blocks, which will execute in the same sequence in which they have 
	been written into the program.

Q12)  What is the need of static block?

Ans.	Static block is mostly used for changing the default values of static variables.
	This block gets executed when the class is loaded in the memory. A class can have 
	multiple Static blocks, which will execute in the same sequence in which they have 
	been written into the program.

Q13)  Can we overload static methods in java?

Ans.	No,Static methods can't be overriden as it is part of a class rather than an object. 
	But one can overload static method. No, you cannot override a static method.The static
	resolves against the class, not the instance.

Q14)  Can we call super class static methods from sub class?

Ans.	If you want to call static method of a class we can call directly from another static
	method or by using its class name we can call static method of that class.

Q15)What is the difference between final and static keywords?


Ans.	Final:
	
	In the case of final variables, they should either be assigned at declaration or in 
	the constructor. In the case of final classes, it means that they cannot be subclassed.
 	
	Static: 

	So if a class has a static variable, no matter how many instances of it you create, 
	they all would have the same value for the variable.
	